---
layout: post
title: "Multivariable chain rule"
categories: misc
---


Chapter 18 Notes 

In scalar multiplication, we have division by 1: $$5=3x$$. To find $$x$$, we did $$5 \frac{1}{3}=x$$; that is, we multiplied by the inverse of $$3$$ to isolate $$x$$. In expressions involving matrices, we need a similar operation. It is called the **inverse** of a matrix. But we need a matrix equivalent for the number $$1$$ and it is called the **identity** function which maps an input to an output that is the same (i.e. it is technically a linear transformation but we just generally use its matrix representation given by $$I_n$$). 
- Recall that scalar valued functions also have an inverse. Def. For a function $$f: X \rightarrow Y$$, its inverse $$f^{-1}: Y \rightarrow X$$ admits an explicit description: it sends each element $$y \in Y$$ to the unique element $$x \in X$$ such that $$f(x)=y$$. That is, it maps each output to an input. But two different outputs can't map to the same input because we wouldn't be able to form a mapping (i.e. which of the outputs should be mapped to that same input? We cannot decide.). Inversely (pun intended), this means that the original function must be bijective: each input maps to a different output (no two different inputs can map to the same output). Formally, bijective means the function is 1 to 1 for each mapping between each number. 
- Def. (inverse). *To-do*. 

### Misc. notes 
- For  $$2 \times 2$$ $$A$$ to be invertible, $$ad-bc \neq 0$$ (i.e. determinant) must be nonzero. Geometrically, this means that the columns of $$A$$ must form a basis for $$\mathbb{R}^n$$. Recall that the columns of $$A$$ are the transformed standard basis vectors of the original space. So this means that the transformed basis vectors must be linearly independent of each other for the inverse to exist. 
- QR decomp.: easy to take inverses of lower, upper triangular matrices so we "decompose" the matrix in terms of those and then compute the inverses and reverse the product.  
- Going from higher dimension to lower dimension is not invertible (i.e. projections). Because you cannot go from lower dimension to higher dimension. 

